	
Click to add to Favorites		Partial Restore Of A Database (Doc ID 102786.1)	To BottomTo Bottom	
Modified:Aug 22, 2012Type:BULLETIN	
Rate this document	Email link to this document	Open document in new window	Printable Page




Purpose
-------
The purpose of this article is to show how to partially restore a database 
backup. When you've accidentally dropped some objects or deleted rows from a 
table you can restore a backup of that database as a copy. Using the archivelog
files you can rollforward until a time just before the drop or delete. 
After the rollforward you can export the data from that copy of the database. 
That export can be used to import the data into the live database. When the 
database is very large and you're only after a few objects it might not make 
sense to restore the full backup. 

This note describes how to restore, rollforward and open just that part of the 
database that you really need.

 
Partial restore of a database
-----------------------------
These are the steps you need to take when restoring just a part
of a backup.

1.  List all the datafiles you need to restore
    In order to open the database without errors you will need the datafiles for
    the following tablespaces:
    + The User tablespace
    + The SYSAUX tablespace (for 10g and higher only)
    + Other tablespaces that hold dictionary information. You can use the 
      following query to track these down:
         select distinct tablespace_name from dba_segments where owner in 
         ('SYS', 'User');
    + The tablespace(s) that hold the rollback segments
    + The tablespace(s) that hold the data that you want to export.

2.  On your original machine, backup your control file to trace.
    using: ALTER DATABASE BACKUP CONTROLFILE TO TRACE

3.  Save this file (create control file script) on your second machine.

4.  Edit this create control file script so it includes all the files in the 
    tablespaces you wish to restore, as listed in step 1 (i.e., delete any files
    that correspond to tablespaces that you are not interested in recovering.) 
    While editing the create control file statement, make changes to the paths
    of the files as required.

5.  Restore the files as listed in the create control file statement.
    that is, restore all the datafiles that were listed in step 1 as the 
    datafiles you need.

6.  Restore the init.ora file from the original database to the new database 
    making any changes required to directory paths in the init.ora file.

7.  Start nomount the database and run the create control file statement/script 
    as prepared in step 4.

8.  Make sure that all archivelog files are available.
    In order to roll forward you need to have all the archivelog
    files available from the time of the backup until the time that 
    you want to roll forward to.

9.  Bring the database up in MOUNT mode
    SVRMGRL> ALTER DATABASE MOUNT

10. Rollforward
    SVRMGRL> RECOVER DATABASE UNTIL TIME '<YYYY-MM-DD:HH24:MI:SS>';
    If you've restored an old controlfile you need to add
    USING BACKUP CONTROLFILE to this command.

11. Open the database
    SVRMGRL> ALTER DATABASE OPEN RESETLOGS;
    The database is now open, only the objects from the restored 
    datafiles are accessible, they can now be exported and imported 
    into the live database.
